# Fall-of-Artica
``Fall of Artica'': A Way Back Home (FoA).  In a dystopian world named ``Artica'',  FoA can take different forms to fit different disciplines or epistemological forms. In the present study, the game addressed the topic of a nontraditional hero's journey, emphasizing a pluralistic perspective that includes tensions among various positions.  We employed a design-based research method~\cite{brown2000growing}  informed by  ``Fictional Distance'' guidelines~\cite{baim2020praxis}, as well as a participatory action learning framework to guide our designs~\cite{carvalho2023teacher}. Students explore contemporary issues through a fictional, post-apocalyptic, and dystopian game narrative, which can sometimes challenge the traditional hero's journey~\cite{campbell2003hero,vogler2017joseph}. FoA supports students' inquiries into the complexities of modern dilemmas within a game-based learning environment. This paper reports on the first iteration, where students inquire about diverse themes and ideas encapsulated within six distinct regions. Interacting with Non-Playing Characters (NPC) in the form of AI chat-bots (Author), students engage in social conflicts. FoA provides a safe environment to express, challenge, and refine their identity and experience within public spheres, such as classrooms or wider educational communities.

\keywords{Serious Game \and Participatory Action Game \and Game Narrative \and Dystopia \and Science Fiction \and Critical Pedagogy \and Critical Distance \and Universal Pragmatics

Zhou, K. H., Fong, C., Pullen, C., & Slotta, J. D. (2024)From Youth Participatory Art to Vision and Action: A Framework for Game-based Research-Creation, Accepted as a short paper at the 18th International Conference of the Learning Sciences-ICLS 2024, International Society of the Learning Sciences.

Zhou, K. H., Pullen, C., & Slotta, J. D. (2024) Digging the Abandoned Feelings out of the Wasteland:  Raising Trouble Makers through A Dystopian Critical Action Game, Accepted as a poster at the 18th International Conference of the Learning Sciences-ISLS 2024, International Society of the Learning Sciences. 

Zhou, K. H., Pullen, C., & Slotta, J. D. (2024) A Critical Action Game: Fall of Artica Investigating new forms of collective inquiry for critical action, Roundtable Session titled “Engaging Our Students & Ourselves: Teaching in New Dimensions and Contexts”, Division C - Learning and Instruction/Division C - Section 1b: Humanities, Social Sciences, Fine Arts at the 2024 Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association (AERA). 

Zhou, K. H., Pullen, C., Holmes, J., & Slotta, J. D. (2023). Supporting Collective Inquiry in a Critical Action Game: A Role for Open AI Conversational Agents. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning-CSCL 2023, pp. 428-431. International Society of the Learning Sciences.

Zhou, K. H., & Slotta, J. D. (2023). A Dystopian Game for Change: Building Asynchronous Learning Network Through Co-Design Partnerships Across Disciplines. In Proceedings of the 17th International Conference of the Learning Sciences-ICLS 2023, pp. 2169-2170. International Society of the Learning Sciences.

Zhou, K.H., Slotta, J. D. (2023) A Dystopian Game for Change: Co-Design Partnerships in English, STEM, and Arts. Presented at a Poster Session titled “SIG-LS Poster Session 1: Games, Embodiment, Design, and Computational Thinking” at the 2023 Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association (AERA). 10.3102/IP.23.2017258

Zhou, K.H. (2022). FALL OF ARTICA: A DYSTOPIAN GAME FOR CHANGE(Master Thesis, University of Toronto).
